# How do transactions work on Solana?

A transaction consists of four parts:

- one or more instructions
- an array of accounts to read or write from
- one or more signatures
- recent blockhash or nonce

An instruction is the smallest execution logic on Solana like a function call on Ethereum. Instructions are a call to update the global Solana state. Instructions invoke programs that make calls to the Solana runtime to update the state (for example, calling the token program to transfer tokens from your account to another account).

A significant difference between Ethereum and Solana is the number of function calls in a single transaction due to the number of instructions. Having multiple instructions per transaction benefits developers as they do not have to create custom smart contracts to chain functions in a single transaction. Each instruction can be a separate function call, done in order in the transaction. Transactions are atomic, meaning if any of these instructions fails, the whole transaction will fail, and you will only pay the transaction fee.

Another key difference to remember would be the use of a recent blockhash instead of an incremental nonce for transactions. When a wallet wants to make a transaction, a recent blockhash will be pulled from the cluster to create a valid transaction. This recent blockhash only makes the transaction valid for 150 blocks after the recent blockhash was retrieved. This prevents long-living transaction signatures from being executed at a much later date.
