# How do fees work on Solana?

Fees on Solana are broken up into a few categories: Base Fee, Priority Fee, and Rent.

- The Base.
  The Base Fee can be calculated based on the number of signatures in a transaction. Each signature costs 5000 lamports (0.000000001 sol = 1 lamport). If your transaction requires 5 signatures, the base fee would be 25000 lamports. This base fee adds economic backpressure to the cluster's signature verification, which is one of the more compute-intensive actions. Half of the base fees are burnt, and half are rewarded to the validators.

- Priority Fee.
  The Priority Fee is an optional fee that anyone can add to a transaction to give priority over other transactions executing at the same time. Priority fee is measured based on the amount of compute units used in a transaction. Compute units are similar to Gas on Ethereum, a simple measurement of computing resources required for a transaction. Like Ethereum, the priority of your transaction is calculated based on the product of the compute unit price and the compute units used, or priority fee = compute units \* compute unit price. Like base fees, half of priority fees are burnt, and half are rewarded to the validators.

- Rent Fee.
  The final fee, Rent, is more of a deposit than a fee. When you create accounts or allocate space on the network, you must deposit some SOL for the network to keep your account. Rent is calculated based on the number of bytes stored on the network, and an additional base fee is charged for allocating space. It is important to note that Rent fees are not lost; they can be collected if you close the account and allow the allocated space to be recollected by the cluster.
