# Overview
On Ethereum, smart contract is an account with the execution logic and storage tied together. On Solana, smart contracts are entirely stateless.

# Example Codes

- Ethereum Counter Smart Contract

```
contract Counter {
	int private count = 0;

	function incrementCounter() public
	{
        count += 1;
	}

	function getCount() public constant returns (int) {
	    return count;
	}
}
```

- Solana Counter Smart Contract

```
#[program]
pub mod counter_anchor {
    use super::*;

    pub fn initialize_counter(_ctx: Context<InitializeCounter>) -> Result<()> {
        Ok(())
    }

    pub fn increment(ctx: Context<Increment>) -> Result<()> {
        ctx.accounts.counter.count = ctx.accounts.counter.count.checked_add(1).unwrap();
        Ok(())
    }
}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct InitializeCounter<'info> {
    #[account(mut)]
    pub payer: Signer<'info>,

    #[account(
        init,
        space = 8 + Counter::INIT_SPACE,
        payer = payer
    )]

    pub counter: Account<'info, Counter>,
    pub system_program: Program<'info, System>,
}

#[derive(Accounts)]
pub struct Increment<'info> {
    #[account(mut)]
    pub counter: Account<'info, Counter>,
}

#[account]
#[derive(InitSpace)]
pub struct Counter {
    count: u64,
}

```

# Explain

`initialize_counter` creates an account with a `count` of 0, which you then can pass this account to `increment` to add to the count. This is not to have state within the smart contract itself.

There are separate accounts that store the data outside of the program.
To execute the logic in a program, you would pass the account you want to perform on

In the case of this `counter` program, you pass a `counter` account to the program when calling the `increment` function, and the program will increment the value in the `counter` account.

# Benefits of the Solana Account Model

1. Program reusability.

Every time someone wants to make a new token, the developer will have to redeploy the ERC20 smart contract onto Ethereum.

Solana is different. You create a new account, known as the `mint` account, off of the Solana Token Program, where the account defines a set of values to give the number of tokens in circulation, decimal points, who can `mint` more tokens, and who can freeze tokens.

You do not need to write any Rust or smart contracts to deploy a new token on Solana.
Send a transaction to the Token Program to create a new token in your language of choice, and the token will then appear in your wallet.

With the Solana Program Library CLI, you can do this in a single command like below

```
$ spl-token create-token

```

2. Local Fee Markets

Another benefit is the ability to model fees based on state contention. On solana, transactions can be executed in parallel based on what accounts are being written to. For example, let's say there is a popular NFT mint going on Solana. Typically, this popularity would increase the prices for everyone using the chain, but instead, everyone not participating in the NFT mint is unaffected.

Fee markets are local per account. If you're sending a transfer of USDC to someone while everyone else is minting the hottest new NFT, you will be unaffected and continue paying the low fee you're used to on Solana.
