# How do fees work on Solana?

Fees on Solana are broken up into a few categories: Base Fee, Priority Fee, and Rent.

- The Base.
  The Base Fee can be calculated based on the number of signatures in a transaction. Each signature costs 5000 lamports (0.000000001 sol = 1 lamport). If your transaction requires 5 signatures, the base fee would be 25000 lamports. This base fee adds economic backpressure to the cluster's signature verification, which is one of the more compute-intensive actions. Half of the base fees are burnt, and half are rewarded to the validators.

- Priority Fee.
  The Priority Fee is an optional fee that anyone can add to a transaction to give priority over other transactions executing at the same time. Priority fee is measured based on the amount of compute units used in a transaction. Compute units are similar to Gas on Ethereum, a simple measurement of computing resources required for a transaction. Like Ethereum, the priority of your transaction is calculated based on the product of the compute unit price and the compute units used, or priority fee = compute units \* compute unit price. Like base fees, half of priority fees are burnt, and half are rewarded to the validators.

- Rent Fee.
  The final fee, Rent, is more of a deposit than a fee. When you create accounts or allocate space on the network, you must deposit some SOL for the network to keep your account. Rent is calculated based on the number of bytes stored on the network, and an additional base fee is charged for allocating space. It is important to note that Rent fees are not lost; they can be collected if you close the account and allow the allocated space to be recollected by the cluster.

# How do transactions work on Solana?

A transaction consists of four parts:

- one or more instructions
- an array of accounts to read or write from
- one or more signatures
- recent blockhash or nonce

An instruction is the smallest execution logic on Solana like a function call on Ethereum. Instructions are a call to update the global Solana state. Instructions invoke programs that make calls to the Solana runtime to update the state (for example, calling the token program to transfer tokens from your account to another account).

A significant difference between Ethereum and Solana is the number of function calls in a single transaction due to the number of instructions. Having multiple instructions per transaction benefits developers as they do not have to create custom smart contracts to chain functions in a single transaction. Each instruction can be a separate function call, done in order in the transaction. Transactions are atomic, meaning if any of these instructions fails, the whole transaction will fail, and you will only pay the transaction fee.

Another key difference to remember would be the use of a recent blockhash instead of an incremental nonce for transactions. When a wallet wants to make a transaction, a recent blockhash will be pulled from the cluster to create a valid transaction. This recent blockhash only makes the transaction valid for 150 blocks after the recent blockhash was retrieved. This prevents long-living transaction signatures from being executed at a much later date.

# Where is the Mempool?

Unlike Ethereum, Mempools don’t exist on Solana. Solana validators forward transactions to up to the following four leaders on the leader schedule. While Solana doesn’t have a mempool, it still has priority fees to help order transactions

# Where can I find smart contract code?

In the EVM world, most are familiar with finding smart contract code on Etherscan when viewing the smart contract address. However, viewing smart contract code on an explorer in the Solana ecosystem is relatively new and needs to be established compared to EVM standards. At the time of writing, `Solana.fm` is the only explorer that supports viewing smart contract code based on verifiable builds.
