# Creating & managing a new SPL token using the token program

## 1. Token Mint

To create a new SPL Token you first have to create a `Token Mint` which is an account that holds data about a specific token like `current supply`, the `addresses` of `mint` & `freeze authorities`, and `decimals`.

To create a new `Token Mint`, need to use `createMint` function from `@solana/spl-token` to send transaction instructions to the `Token Program`.

This transaction contains two instructions: create a new account and initialize a new mint

## 2. Token Account

Before can mint tokens (issue new supply), you need a Token Account to hold newly issued tokens.
A Token Account holds tokens of a specific `mint` and has a specified `owner` of the account

You can use the `spl-token` library's `createAccount` function to create the new Token Account.

### Associated Token Account

An Associated Token Account stores tokens in an address made from:

- The owner's public key
- The token mint

For example, Bob's USDC is stored in an Associated Token Account made from Bob's public key, and the USDC mint address.

Associated Token Accounts provide a deterministic way to find the Token Account owned by a specific publicKey for a specific token.

You can create an associated token account using the `spl-token` library's `createAssociatedTokenAccount` function.

## 3. Mint Tokens

Minting tokens is the process of issuing new tokens into circulation.

When you mint tokens, you increase the supply of the token mint and deposit the newly minted tokens into a token account

Only the mint authority of a token mint is allowed to mint new tokens.
To mint tokens using the `spl-token` library, you can use the `mintTo` function.

## 4. Transferring tokens from one holder to another

SPL Token transfers require both the sender and receiver to have token accounts for the mint of the tokens being transferred

You can use `getOrCreateAssociatedTokenAccount` when obtaining the receiver's associated token account to ensure their token account exists before the transfer

# Token Burning and Delegation

## Burn Tokens

Burning tokens is the process of decreasing the token supply of a given token mint.

Burning tokens removes the tokens from the given token account and from broader circulation.

To burn tokens using the `spl-token` library, use the `burn()` function.

## Approve Delegate

Approving a delegate is the process of authorizing another account to transfer or burn tokens from a token account. The authority over the token account remains with the original owner.

The maximum number of tokens a delegate can transfer or burn is defined when the owner approves the delegate. Only one delegate can be associated with a token account at a time.

To approve a delegate using the `spl-token` library, use the `approve()` function.

## Revoke Delegate

A previously approved delegate for a token account can be revoked. Once revoked, the delegate can no longer transfer tokens from the owner's token accoun

To revoke a delegate using the `spl-token` library, use the `revoke()` function.
